# Graph Search Application with AI

This project implements various graph search algorithms using Python and provides a graphical user interface (GUI) for visualization. The GUI is built using Tkinter, and the graph is visualized using Matplotlib and NetworkX.

## Overview

The application supports the following graph search algorithms:
- Breadth-First Search (BFS)
- Depth-First Search (DFS)
- Uniform Cost Search (UCS)
- Depth-Limited Search (DLS)
- Iterative Deepening Search (IDS)
- Bidirectional Search
- Best First Search
- A* Search

Users can create directed and undirected graphs, add heuristic values for nodes, and visualize the search paths generated by these algorithms.

## Features

- **Interactive Graph Creation**: Add nodes, edges, and specify edge weights.
- **Heuristic Input**: Add heuristic values for nodes to be used in informed search algorithms.
- **Multiple Search Algorithms**: Choose from a variety of search algorithms.
- **Visualization**: Visualize the graph and the search path on the graph.
- **User-Friendly GUI**: Built with Tkinter for an easy-to-use interface.

## Installation

1. **Clone the repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/graph-search-app.git
   cd graph-search-app
   
2. **Install the required libraries**:
   ```bash
   pip install matplotlib networkx

3. **Run the application**:
   ```bash
   python graph_search_app.py

##Usage
1. **Launch the application**:
   ```bash
   python graph_search_app.py

2. **Add Nodes and Edges**:
   - Enter the nodes and edges in the provided fields.
   - Choose whether the graph is directed or undirected.
   - Click "Add Nodes" to add them to the graph.

3. **Add Heuristic Values (optional for informed search algorithms)**:
   - Enter the node and its heuristic value.
   - Click "Add Node Heuristic" to save the value.

4. **Choose Search Algorithm**:
   - Select the search algorithm from the dropdown menu.

5. **Specify Start and Goal Nodes**:
   - Enter the start and goal nodes for the search.

6. **Run the Search**:
   - Click "Submit" to run the search algorithm.
   - The search path will be visualized on the graph.
  
## Demo

Watch the demo video [here](IA-search_graph).

## Authors
- **Hassen Gadacha** - Second Year Student as a Computer Science Engineer at ENSI.
## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
